In this activity we will see how
to handle missing values in Spark.
First, we will load weather
data into a Spark DataFrame.
We'll then examine the summary
statistics for air temperature, remove
the rows with missing values, and finally
impute missing values with the mean.
Let's begin.
First, we'll open the notebook
called handling missing values.
The first cell creates an SQLContext and
then loads the weather data
csv into a data frame.
Let's execute this,
we can view the summary statistics for
the DataFrame by running
df.describe().show().
Let's just look at the summary
statistics for the air temperature.
We'll run
df.describe(['air_score_9am']) .show.
This says that there are 1090 rows.
This does not include the rows of
missing values for the air temperature.
We can count the total number of rows
in the DataFrame by running df.count.()
Since there are 1095 total
rows in the DataFrame, but
only 1090 in the air_temp column,
that means there are five rows in
air_temp that have missing values.
Next, let's remove all the rows in
the DataFrame that have missing values.
We'll put these in a new data
frame called removeAllDF.
To drop the missing values
we'll run df.na.drop.
Let's look at the summary statistics for
air_temp 9AM with
the missing values dropped.
We'll run removeAllDF .describe([
air_temp_9am]) show.()
We can see that the mean and
standard deviation values
are close to the original values before
we removed the rows with missing values.
Additionally, the count of
the number of rows is 1064.
We can verify that this is the total
number of rows in the new DataFrame by
running removeAllDF.count.
Next, let's impute the missing
values with the mean,
instead of removing them
from the DataFrame.
First, we'll need to load
the average function from pyspark.
We'll do this by running from
pyspark.sql.functions import avg.
Next, we'll create a copy of the DataFrame
in which we will input the missing values.
We'll call the new DataFrame imputeDF.
To impute the missing values we'll
iterate through each column of
the original DataFrame, first computing
the mean value for that column and
then replacing the missing values
in that column with the mean value.
To move through the columns
in the data frame,
we'll enter for
x in imputeDF.columns: next,
we'll compute the mean value for
that column.
We'll use the data frame in which
we removed all the missing values,
we'll call the agg function
to compute an aggregate.
And the argument that we give it is avg.
The argument avg is x, which is the column
we are trying to compute the average of.
The agg function returns to DataFrame and
we want to get the first
row of that data frame.
We can do this by calling .first and
then you get the first value in
this row or say [0].
Next let's print the column
name in mean value.
print(x, meanValue)
Now let's update our new DataFrame,
replacing the missing
values with the mean value.
imputeDF = imputeDF.na.fill(meanValue,
[x]).
Let's run this.
We can see that the mean value for
air_temp 9am matches the mean value
computed in the summary statistics of
the data frame where the missing
values were removed.
Finally, let's print the imputed
data summary statistics.
First we'll show the summary
statistics for the original DataFrame.
And then the summary statistics for
the imputed DataFrame.
We'll enter df.describe([
air_temp_ 9am]) .show () and
imputeDF.describe(['air_temp_9am']).sho-
w().
Run this.
We can see that the number of rows
in the imputed DataFrame is larger
than the number of rows in
the original DataFrame.
There were five rows in the original
DataFrame with missing values.
And these have now been
replaced with the mean.